---
title: shall i hear more, or shall i speak at this?
title2: the long version of the story of my short time at Stripe
layout: post
comments: true
---

Two weeks ago, on July 15th, I started work at a company called Stripe.
Two days ago, I quit.

## Wherefore art thou Stripe? ##

For those who haven't heard of it, [Stripe][1] is a small payments company
geared at making it super easy for developers and online merchants to start
accepting money.  Stripe tries to take away all the pain points from the
process---it deals with the nasty business of handling customers' credit card
data, it talks to all the banks and card companies, and it hides all the setup
unpleasantries.  It helps protect developers from fraud and makes managing
payments as low-maintenance as possible.

This kind of product is my favorite kind---one that takes an existing service
and reimagines it in an obviously better way.  Stripe seems to be to online
payments what Uber is to the cab industry; what Square is to in-person,
credit-card-present payments; or what [Nest][2] is to, uh... thermostats.
Startups that develop these sorts of revamps make up almost all of the very
small small set of startups I think are worthwhile at all, and which I would be
terribly proud to have conceived of myself.

So, to be honest, I'm not especially passionate about payments myself---but I
_am_ passionate about these sorts of the-right-way-to-do-things products.  And
I did love the prospect of working on Stripe's tech stack based on what I'd
heard from friends and from visits, and most importantly, I wanted the chance
to work closely with Stripe's very smart systems engineers whom I'd met on a
number of occasions.  I thought there was a ton I could learn from them by
working with them in a close environment, and plus, having only been at
Facebook before, I thought a startup was worth trying out.

<!--more-->

## What's in a name? ##

As it turns out, there may have been a faulty assumption somewhere in that last
bit.

<!--begin-excerpt-->
What does it mean to be a startup?  To some extent, that's the question this
story comes down to.  Or, more precisely--- What does the label of "startup"
entail for me?
<!--end-excerpt-->

For me, the great joy and allure of the startup is the opportunity to get
involved in all the things.  It's not to manage or to direct or to lead---it's
to be a participant in all areas of development that you want to contribute to
(and sometimes, I'm sure, as a necessary cost of this opportunity, also those
you don't).  It's the ability to share in all the team's successes and failures
and the freedom to sow your productivity and efforts across a wider field than
you might be able to in a larger-scale setting.

This is certainly manifested at Stripe.  The trouble for me, though, was that
in my two weeks there, I was just unable to apprehend what I could do to
integrate myself into the company in that way---i.e., I just couldn't tell how
to become a full participant in Stripe's startup discourse.  To [reify][3] the
issue, I also couldn't discern _how to find out_ how to apprehend such a
trajectory for integration---i.e., I encountered an information discovery
problem.

## Scaling that dear perfection ##

I don't believe that these difficulties I faced are really specific to Stripe.
To me, they seem like the inevitable growing pains that come with having to
scale both startup values and an onboarding process in parallel.  After
reaching a certain (fairly small, I would now guess) number of people, these
two elements of company infrastructure seem almost inherently at odds with one
another.

This blog post has a thesis in addition to a story, and this is it:

> There is a tradeoff between (1) maintaining and reaping the benefits of
> startup values and (2) scaling the onboarding process.

Let's consider Facebook.  It's easy, for example, to imagine how Facebook's
motto of "Move fast, break things" might have made onboarding tricky as they
started growing.  When you start off as a developer somewhere, especially if
the people around you have built up lots of systems and infrastructure (e.g.,
by moving very fast), it's hard to move nearly as fast yourself right off the
bat.  You can probably break things super quickly, but I'm pretty sure the
motto refers not to wanton devestation of the codebase, but rather to boldness
and frequent risk-taking--- and at the beginning, it can be even harder to
_know_ where risks should be taken than it is to move fast.

Basically, I think that effectively onboarding new people can mean having to
backpedal a bit on core values.  When optimizing for speed as many startups do,
someone is going to have to slow down during ramp-up---either some of the
existing participants or the newcomer.  Someone will need to be taking fewer
risks so they can spend more time teaching the new guy how to pick risks to
take.

For Facebook, it definitely seems like this scaling problem became easier with
time.  Once Facebook got to the point where it was onboarding small groups of
engineers rather than growing person-by-person, and was doing so at a regular
rate, there were probably Facebookers existing at points all along a continuous
range of fast-movingness and integratedness---this is certainly the case now.
This sort of environment makes it much, much easier for a newcomer to figure
out how to wholly integrate, because there are more data points to base a
projection for the future on.  At this higher pace of growth, you also have the
means to build better infrastructure for onboarding, which Facebook has in [its
successful Bootcamp program][4] for all new hires.  Having others who are
bootstrapping along side of you also seems beneficial.  These are luxuries that
companies just beginning to scale have to live without---and that life can be
difficult and painful.

This isn't a huge revelation---obviously it's easier to grow by _n_ people if
you have _N_ people than if you have _M_ people and _N_ &gt;&gt; _M_.  No need
to thank me for the lesson here in fractions; you're welcome.

Anyway, Facebook is definitely not a startup anymore, but I think it has scaled
up its particular core value with substantial grace.  Not everyone is moving
super fast and breaking super things, but it is clear how to climb the hill of
fastness and risk-takingness starting right in your first few days.  But I'd
bet there was a point long ago, before the scale at which Bootcamp became
tenable, where scaling "Move fast, break things" and managing onboarding
concurrently became very difficult.

## To smell as sweet ##

At Stripe, my integration concerns involved not speed-of-development, but
rather speed-of-information-gain.  If I had to name Stripe's core startup value
that it strives most to preserve---its analogue of Facebook's MFBT---it would
be this: _high information accessibility_.  One of their blog posts describes,
as an example, their [highly-transparent internal email communications][5].
For Stripes, this is a high-bandwidth [firehose of information][6] that can be
switched on and off as needed, and which lets everyone stay fully up-to-date on
all the issues they care about and want to contribute to.  It's a pretty cool
feature to support, and it helps maintain the "build ALL the things!" joy of
startups.

As a newcomer, though, it is daunting.  It is daunting because without the
proper context, it's impossible to interpret these channels effectively, and
instead you get a bit lost in the storm of bytes.  As a friend of mine
analogized, it's like being handed a flurry of entries from a foreign
encyclopedia---the meaning is there, but you can't access it.  You just try to
recognize the cognates and pattern-match with what you know.  The bytes are
opt-in, of course, but not getting enough bytes means that you may miss updates
you do understand regarding parts of the company and the product that you
really want to dig your hands into.

Having a core value of moving fast means that onboarding will slow someone down
a bunch.  Likewise, I think, valuing high accessibility of information, which
facilitates up-to-date data consistency across the company, means that, during
onboarding, someone will have to expend comparatively extraordinary effort to
facilitate information exchange.

Email was not really the most pertinent manifestation of this tradeoff for me.
The information channels I most needed were those pertaining to what I could
_do_---I wanted to start coding and building the things.  However, it was very
hard for me to discover tasks on my own; others had the information needed to
sort out what needed done, and I didn't.  It took lots of poking to make sure I
had something in my pipeline to work on.  Maybe more importantly, this same
lack of information made it hard to assemble a bigger picture of how I could be
productive at Stripe while frobbing all the bits I thought were shiny and which
I could be of good use in twiddling.  It was even hard to find these desired
bits because I couldn't find the discovery mechanisms.

But this is a bit of an Ouroboros---without the context needed to see this
bigger picture, or a substantial external force relating such context, it was
hard to be productive in a self-driven or self-aware way.  Doing the work
didn't make it much clearer what doing work in the future would be like or
quite where the work was meant to take things, and this in turn kept such
context out of reach.

Basically, I was a new Paxos acceptor at Stripe and I needed a copy of the log,
but I wasn't sure where to get it---and maybe also the log updates were written
in another language, say Pisidian, and the Pisidian-to-English dictionary was
also itself a log entry, and moreover I wasn't entirely sure whether Pisidian
was a language or maybe a fish.

## Thou art thyself... ##

So, I promised a story way up in the subtitle, but so far I've mostly been
waxing philosophical about the difficulty of onboarding while trying to keep
startup values at-scale.  It _is_ difficult---for the newcomer, in my
experience, and also I think for the company; and I'd expect this is the case
for more companies than just Stripe, and in more cases than just mine.

When you order a startup, you're also served some unavoidable FUD---a [storied
term][7] I learned at Stripe, repurposed to refer to the unknowns about your
work.  When you join a startup as it begins to scale, you start with this other
FUD about your own integration into the company instead---you get FUD about
when you'll be able to have the first FUD, which is the FUD you actually meant
to order.  But the second FUD is probably not so bad in general.  Why, then,
did I leave Stripe so soon, before finishing my meal?

There were a bunch of other confounding factors.  One was that, as it turned
out, I just did not like San Francisco, or at least the areas in which I was
working and living (or at least sheltering in, since I was still staying in a
hotel Stripe offered me as I apartment-hunted).  The Mission was a far cry from
the South Bay area which I'd quickly grown to love in my previous internships
at Facebook.  SF on the whole seemed very disjointed to me.  The feeling of
suddenly being in a totally different area after only a few blocks is
unnerving---and some of these parts are strangely empty, even though
neighboring areas are dense.

The Stripes I was working with tended to keep late hours, which for me made
communicating with my friends on the East Coast a challenge.  The office was
also less lively than I'd like.  I'm used to having a lot of commotion when I
work, and those settings full of hubbub are the ones I'm most productive in.
As someone accustomed to wider environments and easier mobility to places I
wanted to be (which in this case just happened mostly to be situated a couple
thousand miles away), being where I was made me feel trapped there.

## ...though not a Stripe ##

Some of these pain points, in retrospect, I might have anticipated---but others
were unforeseeable.  My entire spin-up process at Stripe was beset by [a
smattering of misfortunes][8].  I think my onboarding concerns and my troubles
with information discovery are shared by some of the other newcomers, too, but
these other bad experiences were just strokes of particularly awful luck.  When
bootstrapping engineers, for instance, Stripe always sets the goal of shipping
code on Day 1---however, I didn't end up touching any code until the afternoon
of my third day there, and I didn't feel like I had a true task to work on
until Thursday evening, though not for lack of pinging and poking.  Neither
those that came before me nor those that came after have encountered this
Heisenbug, so I'm pretty sure it's not really a thing in general.

Nonetheless, it still left _me_ feeling unproductive and underutilized from the
beginning.  Some belated onboardings were added my second week so that I could
make up time working more closely with other engineers that I had lost.  But
both of these had the unfortunate property of starting some three to five hours
later than scheduled.

I felt like there was a huge disconnect between the context and information
that I had available and the information I wanted to obtain---which others
seemed to enjoy immeasurably more of.  And the issue was that I didn't have
enough information to see how big the gap was, nor how I could possibly ever be
able to make the jump given the pace I was at.  I'd fallen on an extreme end of
the tradeoff; Stripe's core value of information accessibility was completely
lost on me, and I just couldn't project how it might someday be a joy and a
benefit that I, too, could reap.

Sometimes you just need to climb a hill.  When you join a startup, the
environment may not be as continuous---it's more of a cliff, and you need to
find your own way to scale it, and you might not have any equipment, and so
you've gotta search.  And sometimes you spend a week walking along the sand in
one direction, and then you start over and spend a week walking the other way,
and the cliff is just as tall as ever in every direction, and you feel like
maybe you've got too much FUD to start with and what you really need is
actually [FLUDD][9], so you do what your gut tells you it's time to do.

You look for your princess in another castle.

## That which we call a startup ##

_Is_ Stripe still a startup?  I know parts of this post must imply that
question.  I think the answer is, "Yes", and I just happened to miss all the
magic startup dust, and maybe got left behind in some regular dust instead.  I
didn't leave because Stripe was awful---I left because circumstance (some of
it, to be fair, Stripe-derived) had pushed me all the way to one side of the
values-scaling/onboarding tradeoff, and navigating from such a foggy corner
didn't seem like the problem I ought to spend my time solving.

Stripe offers a cool product which I expect to succeed, and so as a corollary,
I expect it to succeed in negotiating this tradeoff as well.  I'm curious to
see what they come up with to solve this human scaling problem alongside their
more technical ones.

Just not quite curious enough to wait it out myself.

<!--begin-excerpt-->

[1]:  https://www.stripe.com                "Stripe"
[2]:  http://www.nest.com                   "Nest"
[3]:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reification_(computer_science)
  "Wikipedia: Reification (computer science)"
[4]:  https://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=177577963919
  "Facebook Bootcamp"
[5]:  https://stripe.com/blog/email-transparency
  "Stripe email transparency"
[6]:  http://blog.alexmaccaw.com/stripes-culture
  "Stripe's culture"
[7]:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fear,_uncertainty_and_doubt
  "Wikipedia: Fear, uncertainty, and doubt"
[8]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I6OXjnBIW-4
  "What a crazy random happenstance!"
[9]: http://www.mariowiki.com/F.L.U.D.D.    "FLUDD"
<!--end-excerpt-->
