---
title: how to maybe be an adult human
layout: post
comments: true
---

The title of this post is preposterously overzealous---it should really be
called something like,

> "How I started to maybe be an adult human who has come from and continues to
> be in a position of substantial enough privilege that my adult-being
> experiences are all sort of about dumb things, really, if you think about it
> for a while, and also I am probably not a good source of advice in this
> area,"

but I didn't want to mess up the delicate, hand-wrought formatting on this page
with such a long title.  Fortunately, I have other apt yet unwieldy alternate
titles; for instance,

> "Things I had to do in the last five months in order to feel like I knew how
> to be a Person living in the World, during which time my life was just sort
> of boring, and relatedly that is why I posted nothing on my blog."

and this post on my blog is about some of these things.

<!--more-->

## But first&hellip; ##

I---along with, I'd expect, most other humans---have pretty much no interest in
reading online pieces "about adulthood" (especially those targeted towards the
experience of whatever generation it is I'm in---I used to think it was X but I
guess it's Y now, and X already happened?  I'm guessing this nomenclature is
all some sort of ironic patriarchal propaganda.)

Most of these articles say dumb things ("As an adult, you don't have to eat
your vegetables, LOL!"), a scant few offer gems of true wisdom ("You actually
don't have to do anything at all on weekends anymore."), and then of course
there are [the ones that make big claims which some people find very
offensive][waitbut], but which I think are mostly just stupid because it is
sort of like saying, "Older people are all racist," and then trying very
earnestly to present self-help advice to them _en masse_, but they don't really
care because they're kind of busy going about their non-racist lives.

Writing about (possibly) shared human experiences seems to me like a job for
science or art: Not necessarily amazing science or art, but at the very least,
for something that has a surface of potential contact with the sublime.  I am
pretty sure this excludes most ordinary bloggy exposition.  But as I have just
made myself the author of one of these posts, I feel like I need to justify a
choice which I would normally describe with such glowing terms as,
"unnecessary," and, "uh, why?"

My justification is a practical one: I feel like I have not generated any
original content in about five months, and this is the easiest subject matter
for me to access.  <!--begin-excerpt-->Half a year ago, I started working on
maintaining a website so I could create and publish content instead of just
consuming it.  This was a real goal!---one which I managed to fail not because
I was too lazy to write things, but because I was somehow _too lazy to
experience or think anything worth writing about_.<!--end-excerpt-->

I'm really not used to having nothing to say for such long periods of time.  I
enjoy having an audience, and so most of the time I keep plenty of thoughts
stashed away that I can blurt out of my face-hole whenever I want.  And right
now I've got five dull months of material to work with, so hold on to your hats
and stockings and prepare for a mild ride.

## Queer lodgings ##

The transition from having your needs met by your some combination of your
parents and the government (and, by proxy, whatever educational institution you
are or were privileged to attend), to having them met by you, yourself, can be
difficult to navigate.

...is a sentiment I suspect some people express sometimes.  But it is not one
that I can readily relate to.  I feel obligated to establish that meeting my
_needs_ was not an endeavor that was particularly interesting _or_
disinteresting, because it was not enough of an endeavor at all.  But this is
not a piece about privilege; it is a piece which stops briefly, spots some
privilege flying overhead, screeching into the mountain wind, and then
continues on its trail talking about whatever it was talking about instead of
[<span id="link">giving up on talking about anything at all as soon as
disparity in privilege comes up</span>][poverty].  Privilege is something worth
grappling with, but fortunately I have consumed some nice content recently
which grapples with it and I have presented it to you in the form of a
"[hyperlink][link]".

The takeaway here is that I am telling a story, but it is a story that does not
really have a meaningful struggle or a conflict.  Imagine the story of _The
Hobbit_, except instead of finding giant spiders, hissing and venomous,
stalking the Mirkwood, Thorin's expedition just gets a little bit tired of
seeing rotting trees; and rather than being attacked by orcs mounted on savage
wargs, the dwarves and Bilbo all become a tad hungry (only a tad), so they go
looking for food, find it after a short time, and then aren't hungry anymore
as a result of consuming their food.  My story is a lot like this one, except
that I am not a hobbit, and I have no dwarves, and I am not on a quest, and
there are few other similarities aside from those differences.

Anyway, I'm pretty sure I meant to talk about finding a place to live, which
seems like the sort of thing that is always a pain no matter your means.

I can't imagine that living in the suburbs is a very pleasant choice for people
who are young but who don't have the luxury of, say, [starting a job, deciding
that your job gives you too many sad units, quitting your job, and then
magically replacing it with some otherjob of comparable merit][stripe].  Here
is my impression of looking for a house in the city, having tried it:

1.  Find an apartment.  Hold up, _how_ much does living in this closet cost?

2.  Okay, found a shoebox at a pretty reasonable price, let's go with that.

Meanwhile, in the suburbs:

1.  Ugh, I had to take a cab from the airport, this is so obnoxious, it is such
    a cost-inefficient way to travel that I can't even bear to punctuate my
    sentences properly as a consequence, but public transportation here is kind
    of awful and also a train station isn't my final destination, how would
    that really help me?

2.  Well, it's a good thing that wasn't actually an experience I had, and
    instead my local friend Garrett could drive me.  I guess I should probably
    rent a car so that I can freely and independently travel to all of those
    exciting places that aren't exactly where I'm standing right now.  I hear
    that those exciting places have places where I can live.

3.  Ha ha, who am I kidding, they honestly probably don't.

4.  Oh, huhn, I need an address to rent this car?  Uh, well, uh, let me think
    about that.

5.  Is it okay if I list the address of a hotel or something?  No?  It has to
    be my permanent address?  Okay, no worries, I was just asking
    hypothetically.

6.  Hold on I think my mom is calling me, let me just check my email on my
    phone.  Outside.

7.  Okay Garrett, can I borrow your address?

So anyway, two weeks later I moved into an apartment somehow.

<figure
  class="right h-margins"
  style="max-width: min(240px, 50%);"
>
  <img
    alt="Green is even my favorite color!"
    src="/img/posts/2014-03-10-a.jpg"
    style="width: 100%;" />
</figure>

## Roast mutton ##

My free time over the next five or so months was occupied in a similar
manner; that is to say, I basically had a bunch of tasks to do which were
essentially required, mildly inconvenient---and somehow all terribly
off-putting.

For the most part, these tasks were really dumb and easy.  (Finding my
apartment ended up being somehow magically easy, and I ended up in the cheapest
single-person unit I could find anywhere in the area.)  One of them was "Make
an online account for dealing with my health insurance," which took me about
two months to not do and twenty seconds to actually accomplish.  Other such
gems include:

- Put all of my mail in the same place.

- Wipe the floor in front of my bedroom door so that I can take the rug I hung
  over the door because the ground was dirty and put it on the ground where it
  is useful.

- Know what is happening in my bank account.

I have always been pretty good at not putting things off, or at least not in a
way that manages to affect my ability to continue living other parts of my
life.  In college, putting work off usually meant that I would instead do other
things which were still productive but more appealling---or at least which were
entertaining---and then at some point I'd have to stay up really late to do the
original thing I ought to have done.

But I think the attribute which sets all the basic life-related tasks I put off
in the past months apart from actual, meaningful forms of work---of the sort
that one procrastinates in school---was that they somehow critically blocked
large numbers of other tasks.

The basic thought process went like this:

1.  Maybe I should try writing something today or read [_The Ocean at the End
    of the Lane_][gaiman].  I could watch all those new episodes of
    [_Futurama_][louisck] I've been meaning to watch.

2.  Wait, I have to ~look at my bank account~.

3.  How the hell do I do that?  What does that even mean?  How do I process all
    this data?

4.  Ugh, I guess I shouldn't get invested doing anything else yet.  I should
    really look at my bank account first.

5.  Better just watch reruns of _Sherlock_.

This is horrible!  (Aside: my favorite _Sherlock_ rerun to watch is the one
with the wedding.)

But, anyway---horrible!  This thought process was more pronounced for certain
tasks involving money, because I at some point became aware that I was making
an "income," and if I didn't do something else with it besides "just let it sit
there," the magic of economics would cause my dollars to gradually become worth
no dollars, and then wouldn't I feel silly?  I was told that sorting out my
finances was exponentially more impactful the earlier I took care of it.  So
this meant that at least being aware of what money I had, or spent, or didn't
have, or ingested, took front-seat importance---I should deal with it before I
do other things!

Empirically, this was _such a drag_ that my reaction to it was, "Well, better
do zero things, then."

I had similar self-paralyzing reactions in response to other tasks.  While my
mail was piled on my desk, my response was, "Guess I can't use my desk ever."
And of course, during all the time I put off opening my mail, I couldn't just
go do other things, because---of course!---opening my mail was the thing that
should come first.

This is clearly just a psychological failure on my part.  Each task which
prevented me from doing all the other interesting and satisfying things I would
do, just because it "takes priority," didn't have enough inherent value to
motivate me to jump on it.  Finishing these dumb tasks just lets me _do things
I want to do_, instead of allowing me _to have done things I want to do_, and
apparently my weak and feeble mind was unable to traverse this vast linguistic
canyon.  Unnerving.

Of course, the most ridiculous consequence of this thought process was that not
only did I avoid making new content, I even avoided _consuming_ new content.
This concrete conclusion managed to elude me for a few months, at which point I
realized that I'd become actively averse to watching new shows, or eating at
new places, or even _reading new articles on the Internet_---which was really
the last straw.  I typically keep a long backlog of links I've clicked but have
not read, and then read them when I'm eating and can't do anything else
productive---but one weekend in February, I found myself actively re-reading
something I'd read a week before.

I believe that this is probably the closest approximation we have as a society
to the Platonic form of unproductivity.  Reading anything on the Internet at
all is probably ill-advised, because so much of it does not actually enrich
one's life, and it's nearly impossible to discern what does without just
consuming the content.  Reading some random link I found for a second time just
because reading a new link _offended my sense of priorities_ must needs be an
active vice.

At long last, enough was enough, and thus concludes the story about how I
purchased financial software, bought a blue-tinted plastic container for my
mail, did my taxes, and then went back to being a person instead of being a
fleshy rock.

Wow, what a shitty story.

## There and back again ##

I think this is a good time to return briefly to my friendly revision of _The
Hobbit_.

The events of _The Hobbit_ come to a head when the armies of the Dwarves, the
Elves of Mirkwood, and the Men of Lake-town join forces to fight against the
approaching army of Goblins and Wargs.  But imagine a story in which, after
reaching the Misty Mountain, shuffling around for a bit inside and discovering
no Dragon, Bilbo just turns around and begins to walk home.

The climax of my story is not like this hypothetical climax.  The climax of my
story sucked, and didn't involve walking.  Really, it wasn't a climax at all,
and that is probably the most major difference.

I have no idea whether my insane response to having to do dumb tasks with
little independent value is due to my special-snowflake neuroses, or if
everyone's been doing this and I just wasn't invited to the party where we all
sit and avoid doing anything at all out of fear of priority inversion.  But,
regardless, I enjoyed writing this, and there is a takeaway here, I suppose.
It's the obvious one, though; it's: "Stop being a moron, you moron; don't
respond to having to do boring but requisite tasks by _doing nothing_ and just
do the goddamn task."

Apparently being an "Adult" involves lots of junk work with no intrinsic value
and which is neither consumption nor creation.  Processes of creation are
especially valuable to me.  I have a lot of admiration for all works which add
new content to the world, and I am very glad that I have returned from the
stupid depths of doing no things because _bleh_, to the world of
content-producing humans.

<br />

_P.S._: I was partly impelled to write this because I read [John Campbell's
final Kickstarter update][sad] and became very deeply upset and felt the need
to put something into the world, and that something ended up being this blog
post.  That happens sometimes; you would maybe rather have something better but
you just sort of end up with blog posts.  Okay.


[waitbut]:  http://waitbutwhy.com/2013/09/why-generation-y-yuppies-are-unhappy.html
  "I like Wait But Why, and this post is entertaining but still sort of stupid."

[poverty]:  http://pleaseaddress.com/poverty-all-entries/
  "A worthwhile piece about poverty and privilege."

[link]:     #link
  "Heheheheheh."

[stripe]:   /2013/07/28/shall-i-hear-more-or-shall-i-speak-at-this.html
  "Ha ha!  I am linking to my own blog post!  I am so good at this."

[gaiman]:   http://www.whohauntsneil.com/welcome/
  "This isn't a link to the book, just so you know."

[louisck]:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BGDPme0JN5g
  "Not Futurama."

[sad]: https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/73258510/sad-pictures-for-children/posts/759318
  "Yeah fuck you, guy."
